.. _leadership:

##################
Project Leadership 
##################

yt-project Members
------------------

A member is someone who has made continued and significant contribution to the
project (changes to the codebase, discussion on mailing lists, feedback on pull
requests, documentation, teaching, etc.) for some period of time. After such a
period, potential new members are nominated for membership by an existing
member and confirmed by positive votes from three additional members. Once a
developer becomes a member, they remain a member for life. A member maintains
the option to give up their membership and have their name removed from the
list. Membership may be revoked for anyone who is deemed to be directly harmful
to the project or the community upon a nomination by another member and five
supporting member votes and an additional vote by the steering committee.
Members may also elect to become emeritus members, and be recognized for their
contributions to the project while also rescinding their write access to the
project. 

Upon the initial creation of yt membership status, all
developers that had contributed at least 50 changesets were granted
membership. The `Project Members page <https://yt-project.org/members.html>`_ 
gives a description of the requirements
for membership and provides a list of all members and the year in which
membership was granted. Members have write access to all official yt
repositories and can, therefore, accept and merge pull requests.

Subproject Teams
----------------

To help foster a network of maintainer mentorship and to make maintenance of
the yt project more sustainable, we have opted for a leader/deputy model for
areas within the yt project that may have some thematic maintenance experts.
The subproject leader is the primary point of contact for maintenance of that
subproject, and may help onboard and mentor new maintainers of the subproject,
who are the deputies. Deputies may self-nominate to become deputies. Being a
lead or deputy on a project does not limit maintenance in other aspects of the
project, we are merely aiming for some distributed responsibility of
maintenance efforts across the community. We invite members of the community to
self-nominate to fill empty roles of leaders or deputies of subprojects, or to
self-nominate to become leaders of newly proposed subprojects. 

The initial project/subproject teams are:

.. admonition:: within the organization

   * yt-project infrastructure (including website and yt hub)
   * analysis modules (one lead/deputy for each analysis module)
   * unyt

.. admonition:: within the yt core package

   * domain contexts (general domain infrastructure)
   * yt testing (answer testing, unit testing, and CI)
   * frontends (one lead who understands generic frontend infrastructure, 
     deputy for each specific frontend)
   * visualization
   * documentation (narrative docs and examples)

Groups Within the yt Project
----------------------------

The goal of the groups within the yt project is to help focus member energy so
that the yt project can grow, nurture, and develop a healthy group of
contributors, reviewers and maintainers of the project. Each color-coded group
encompasses many members of the community, but hopefully will help to direct
and distribute project member energy.

**Red Group** (includes executive committee, and all subproject leaders) –
Members of this group spend a large part of their time organizing the
yt-project from a high level. They are expected to coordinate their actions
with other red members so that the project presents a coherent position towards
the outside. They are expected to prepare and attend the monthly team calls and
executive committee meetings. We expect red members to teach and grow other
members so that they can pass their organizational responsibilities on to them.
This encourages us to increase diversity, reduce burn-out and allow group
members to shift their focus in reaction to changing life circumstances. If a
red member chooses to change focus, that change of focus will be announced at
the next monthly team meeting. Red group members are expected to also perform
duties of blue group members while facilitating and helping the blue group to
grow.

**Blue Group** (includes all subproject deputies and yt project members) – This
is where the journey of a new yt project team member starts. Blue group members
spend a large part of your time facilitating contributions from others to the
project (e.g. reviewing work, answering questions, maintaining project
infrastructure, doing triage of new issues). We expect blue members to teach
and grow contributors that can become blue members. This encourages diversity
of the project. After building a good understanding of the technology and
social structure of the project blue members can change to a red member by
volunteering for tasks which a red member is expected to perform. After a while
of doing so the group will ask if you want to become a red member and, if you
agree, recognise you as such at a monthly team meeting.

**Green Group** (can be any person, any time, self-nominated only)-- This group
applies to members of the community whose life situation has changed so that
they prefer to (temporarily) not take on the rights and responsibilities of
being an active member. Membership to the green group is invoked by
self-nomination. They can return to active membership by resuming their
community activities. Their return will be announced at the next team meeting
or via the developers mailing list.

**Emeritus Group** (time based or self-nominated)-- this group is for members
of the community at any level that have a prolonged leave of member duties from
the yt project. We welcome participation in the community for any length of
time, and this is a way to retire from the project. A project member may become
emeritus by self-nomination or by not interacting in a membership capacity on
the yt project for over 2 years. After this time, a member of the executive
committee will contact an inactive member and see if they wish to remain active
or transition to an emeritus role. 

Finally, members of the community that wish to not be associated with the yt
project may request to be removed from any/all teams/groups/committees and
documentation by e-mailing either confidential@yt-project.org or
yt-exec@googlegroups.com.

Steering Committee
------------------

Members are eligible to serve on the yt project steering committee (also
sometimes referred to as the executive committee). The
steering committe shall meet quarterly or more often as needed to discuss
project-related business. Members may join the steering committee by attending
one of the team meetings and self-nominating. Once nominated, a nominee's entry
to the steering committee will be voted on by members of the steering committee
by a vote ratio equal or exceeding to 3/5. One person on the steering
committee shall act as the coordinator, in charge of making sure the team
meetings happen. All developers are welcome to participate in team meetings.

